After all this buildup, was anyone else disappointed by the ending? I am glad that all the loose ends were tied up and that Claudius finally died, but I can't help but feel let down. To me, it was very anti-climatic. Having every problem and plot issue resolved back-to-back seems like Shakespeare wrote the whole play then ran out of time and had to finish everything quickly. It's like Shakespeare was like, “Oh yeah Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, uhhh they're dead. BOOM MASTAPIECE.” HAmlet has been hyped up as the best play and so many quotes have come from it, I was expecting something bigger. Then end doesn't even have “Hamlet's Plan” in it at all. It seems useless to have the son of the murdered king go crazy other than maybe it was funny for the audience and it wouldn't be funny if Hamlet was just mopey and depressed the entire time. Maybe just because Shakespeare knew that plays were boring and wanted to make it more interesting and some crude humor for the peasants. Watching all these clips made the ending more exciting, but also because some versions are exaggerated. My favorite scene in the end was when after Claudius was stabbed and Hamlet forced the poised down his throat and was screaming, “join my mother.” But that is the climax of the entire play. The falling action and the the resolution are both around one page each, Hamlet talking to Horatio and then Yung Fortinbras comes in and it's over. Was anyone else unsatisfied with the ending? Did anyone enjoy how it ended? What do you think?
I can’t agree more that this play seemed to be tied up rather quickly. The ending had everyone important die and then some random guy ends up taking over. It seems Young Fortinbras’s only role in the play was to take over at the end. That could have been anybody. The ghost kicked off the beginning of the play by scaring everyone and telling Hamlet what he needs to do. It would have been interesting to see the ghost come back and tell us some more or let us know if what happened was what he wanted. I know that the play was supposed to be a tragedy but I really had no emotions for any of the characters. Just seemed like there was people and then those people died and then it ended. I feel like if so many characters were to die in a play, I should at least have some feeling for them. Hamlet is held at high regards from what I’ve heard, but not for me. Slow build up to a quick, unsatisfying ending. 
Another thing that seems unnecessary is the deaths of Polonius and his family. Polonius died in a freak accident and then the rest of his family went along with him. His family had little to do with the storyline and their deaths seemed to be barely related to the point of the play. The point of the play, I thought, was Hamlet getting his revenge on the king Claudius for killing his father. Even though the king Claudius does die, so does Hamlet and all that Hamlet gets as a reward is that his request to have young Fortinbras to rule next.

THE POLITICAL SITUATION 

Now that we have come to the end, it is much more clear as to why Shakespeare decided to include the political mayhem throughout the play. The political situation sets the tone for the play. During the Renaissance, culture and hierarchy was organized and predictable, so when the King dies and the Queen remarries suspense is created. Other than creating suspense and disorganization in the play, it served to foreshadow the violence at the end of the play as well as the inner conflicts Hamlet has about his mother due to her quick marriage after the death of King Hamlet.
In the beginning of the play we even have Claudius admitting that the political system is in chaos after the death of King Hamlet (young Fortinbras thinks) when he says, “I will tell you know, as you know, young Fortinbras,Not thinking very much of us, Or thinking that our late dear brother’s death Made our country disorganized and no longer powerful.” We can now see how the admitting of the chaos in the beginning of the play foreshadows the violence at the end of the play (the death of Queen Gertrude, Laertes, King Claudius and Hamlet, not to mention the killing of King Hamlet in the beginning of the play). This all comes to a closing with organization being restored when Hamlet announces Fortinbras the new heir to the throne of Denmark. Fortinbras then buried Hamlet with honors saying that. “Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage, For he was likely, had he been put on, To have proved most royalty.”

WHAT IS THE POINT TO THIS? - this seems negative but I am genuinely curious

Now that we have finished reading Hamlet, I’m sure that I’m not the only person wondering why we read this play. Other than reading it for the story, why do you think we spent nearly a month studying this play? Do you think that we read it to watch what revenge can do to a person, and how it often harms more than just the intended? Or are we supposed to see the greed of Claudius and learn what it can cause? What lessons did you get out of it? 
For me, the most obvious thing I learned is why the plastic skull in the ceramics room (used for reference to human proportions and just generally looking creepy) is named Yorick. On a slightly deeper level, I think that I learned some good advice (mainly given by Polonius, which is funny when you think about his own morals given that he seemed to love to spy on Hamlet and manipulate his daughter.) However, I think the main lesson I learned is how quickly a situation can spiral out of control. Shakespeare definitely took Hamlet’s character and his madness to the extreme, but I think that it does a good job of illustrating bad choices. While it makes it seem a bit unrealistic and dramatized, we have to remember that the greatest way to convey something the way we want to is to make it obvious and leave no room for doubt. (That was worded strangely, but oh well.) This lesson was reinforced throughout the play––not only did Hamlet go mad quickly, but his actions caused a spiderweb of negative consequences. Hamlet jumps to kill Polonius almost immediately after he noticed there was someone behind the tapestry, Ophelia died very quickly after hearing the news that her father was dead (or maybe it was just because the passage of time wasn’t made known), and four people died within a short act. Almost all of these things were unintended, and it reminds me of how situations in life can go out of your control.
What about you? Did you take away anything from reading this play? I think another thing that could have an impact on what we learn from Hamlet could be that we didn’t really see it performed. Hamlet is one the most well known and performed play there is, even including other playwrights, and like Mr. Bergen often said, there are many different ways for the lines to be interpreted.
Where does the ghost go???

In act one scene one, following King Hamlet’s death, his ghost appears, becoming an important character in the play. He becomes a catalyst in the story. Our final sighting of the ghost was in scene three, when Hamlet and Queen Gertrude have their heated argument. This is where King Hamlet’s ghost stepped in and reminded Hamlet what his true goals were. They were not to yell at his mother for her quick re marriage but to destroy King Claudius. 
King Hamlet’s ghost has been missing ever since, which I personally think is very strange. After all, the ghost of King Hamlet has been inspiring Hamlet to get revenge since the beginning. It also has been guiding Hamlet through what is right and wrong when it comes to his revenge. As we neared the end of the play I kept expecting him to reappear but he never did. It almost seemed as if the ghost was simply just forgotten. For the play to have something be such a great influence and then just disappear seemed incomplete. 
One theory could be that the ghost disappeared because it was never real, only a figment of Hamlet’s imagination brought onto him by his friends. This would make more sense for why the ghost disappeared. The ghost of King Hamlet was there along the way to guide Hamlet. Once Hamlet was sure of his decisions the ghost was not needed anymore. Meaning Hamlet didn’t need to consult with anyone anymore. 
Personally I think the ghost was real in the play. I would have found it interesting if the ghost returned when Hamlet was killed, as a greeting to comfort and lead him into the after life. Although this would go against the style Shakespeare usually uses, ending his tragedies with death and no look beyond the grave. What is your opinion of the abrupt disappearance of King Hamlet’s ghost.

DEATH OF THE MAIN CHARACTER

In the beginning of the book I didn’t actually think Hamlet was going to die. I merely thought he was just going to keep messing up and killing those that were around him. As the book progressed and we heard how King Claudius, Hamlet’s friends, and Laertes were all planning on killing Hamlet I realized that my initial assumption may have been false. Usually in books the main character that the readers have gotten to know survives. This was going to be different for Hamlet. Although this was initially surprising I realized the play Hamlet is not the only of Shakespeare’s plays that does this. Shakespeare actually has a pattern of naming his books after that characters that will die (sorry if that’s a spoiler, not all of them do this). I found that particularly interesting because since the name of the play itself is Hamlet, I should have known. 

Honestly I steer clear of books in which a main character will die. I find it harder to invest into something when you know the outcome. Although with Hamlet I didn’t find it as hard. I really didn’t feel any connection with Hamlet. Perhaps that’s because the play was read in sections with the class so I couldn’t read on my own speed. Or maybe it was just because Hamlet wasn’t a lovable character. I mean we didn’t really get to know him at all before he was “acting” insane, plotting revenge, and yelling at his mother and Ophelia. In fact none of the characters were truly lovable and I found the end scene with all the deaths to be surprising but not disheartening. Maybe if I saw actors’ interpretations I would feel more bummed out after the ending. 
I am curious as to what you all think about killing off the main character?

You make some really interesting points. Now that I think about it, Shakespeare’s plays do usually have the name of the characters that die as the title. This is the first time I’ve heard that Shakespeare tends to do this so it really hit me hard because now I realize it’s so true. Another one of his plays that pops into my mind is of course Romeo and Juliet. Again, in that play both of them who the play is based on end up dying at the end. I also agree with you on how when hamlet died, it didn’t really affect me even a little bit. But the reason why is because of the way the Play in written. The reason we fall in love with characters is because of the things they do throughout the book. In this play, Hamlet was never the guy that everyone wants to be. He acted insane for most of the play making us not really care for him. He was mean to his mother Gertrude and even killed Polonius and drove Ophelia insane making her kill herself. By the end of the play he was so out of it that he was just like any other character in the play who we didn’t care for. So when he died, it was just like any other simple character in the story had died. I felt worse about Laertes dying than Hamlet for some reason. Even though he tried to kill Hamlet, the reason I felt bad for him is because all of his family was dead. Back to the topic about the main character dying, I agree with what you said. If I know that the main character of a story is going to die, that immediately makes the book less interesting because you know what’s coming. But in the other hand, if you don’t know and it suddenly happens that comes as a huge surprise and it would take some good writing to come back from the main character dying.
UNDERWHELMING ENDING? I THINK SO

We have finally finished Hamlet. After the weeks we spent reading Hamlet and watching the plot build, we saw everyone die in a matter of minutes. Whether someone spoiled the ending for you or not, you definitely suspected that everyone would die. However, the way they died stood out to me as extremely underwhelming. You could describe the way I reacted to the ending as the way the King shrugged before drinking the poison in that movie clip we watched… “bleh”.

I’m not sure whether it is just me, but the ending to Hamlet kinda sucked. One of the first things that came to my mind after the play ended was the absence of Ghost Hamlet. Shakespeare surprised me when he created a supernatural character in the beginning. I was hoping the ghost came back in the ending, perhaps right before Hamlet died, so we could have some closure for the ghost as a character. As shown in the scene where Hamlet is arguing with Gertrude (before Polonius’s death), Ghost Hamlet is watching Hamlet and what he is doing. Does Ghost Hamlet give up on his son after he doesn’t truly avenge him? It seemed everybody important in the scene died, making it fitting that Ghost Hamlet could have shown himself.

In my opinion, I felt the ending of Hamlet was rushed. Shakespeare brushed over the death of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, yet they were Hamlet’s friends and Hamlet easily betrayed them. The story didn’t really address the betrayal as much as I’d hoped it would. Also, I felt the development of Fortinbras in the play was lacking. He was always off to the side and I never understood his motives. The fact that he showed up minutes after everyone had died is interesting timing… But since he proclaimed he would take over, I wish we knew more about him. Or maybe he could’ve shown up midway through the fight between Laertes and Hamlet. That could’ve been interesting. What do you guys think? Did you guys like the ending?

ACT 5 SCENE 2-- KING AND QUEEN COMMIT SUICIDE?

We just watched the 2009 David Tennant version of the final act of this play, and I have to say, the way it was depicted was not what I pictured in my mind when originally reading the scene. When we were reading the text, Mr. Bergen stopped the recording and discussed the different reasons Gertrude took a drink of the poison. Maybe she was oblivious to the fact the drink was fatal, maybe she didn't hear Claudius, maybe she wanted to show him he couldn't control her. However, in the 2009 version we just watched, Gertrude is obviously aware of what she is doing. Her facial expression after Claudius tells her to stop is not one of confusion or oblivion; her gaze up from the cup and the somewhat conflicted look in her eyes tell us that she is aware of the ramifications drinking out of this cup will bring. She shows slight hesitation, but takes a quick swing of the drink anyways. This makes me think: why is Gertrude wanting to end her life? In a previous post of mine, I explored a theory that speculated Gertrude to be the killer of Ophelia. In short, the theory states that the murder was committed out of jealousy and guilt for turning Hamlet mad. Gertrude has been living with the burden of Hamlet’s insanity; it has taken a toll on her and has made her question whether she is to blame. Perhaps, this guilt along with the guilt from killing Ophelia has caught up with Gertrude, and she didn't feel she could live with the weight any longer. 
A similar part of the 2009 version that I found strange was that Claudius willingly took a sip from the cup, whereas the original stage directions made it seem as though Hamlet forced the drink down his uncle’s throat. I think his reasoning for doing this can tie in with Gertrude’s reasoning-- both have realized the severity of what they've done and are facing the consequences. Because of the one event of King Hamlet being murdered, many people have fallen. Similar to Gertrude, maybe Claudius’s guilt has finally caught up with him, and after watching many of his loved ones die, he felt it was only fair to take his own life. 
What do you guys think? Did you find these parts of the scene odd? What other reasons may Gertrude/Claudius have for willingly poisoning themselves?

ALAS, POOR SHAKESPEARE I KNEW HIM WELL, NOT REALLY

During Act 5 scene 5, we read possibly one of the most controversial lines in literature history, and possibly for all the wrong reasons: “Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow”. For those who don’t know, there has been a timeless misconception of how this quote goes, leading to plenty of characters in books, tv shows, comics, movies, and more phrasing it wrong. They would say it like “Alas, poor ____ I knew him well” in order to make the scene they’re playing in more dramatic, or to make it seem comical to reference shakespeare”s work. Nowadays with the improvements to technology, and history, making a mistake like this is hard to not get notice, especially when there is much emphasis on the statement. While this may seem minor, this mistake has lead to constant debates on whether it is right to say this quote incorrectly, or not, which I will be discussing today.

Some people argue that the reason for past uses of the quote have tainted one of Shakespeare’s legacy on the world, others state that they were only mistakes and the emersion of this play is fixed currently. Now, in my personal opinion, I believe that saying this quote in an incorrect manner isn’t fine because people won’t get the reference, and the effort will be meaningless. However, all the times shakespeare’s “Hamlet” was referenced in the past are fine considering that at the time, people didn’t have as much of a way of confirming the reference. In this generation, the internet has provided plenty of ways to check certain facts when creating something meaningful for others. An article, or book could immediately be wrong with something, and given feedback while it was still in production. In the past though, referencing a creative artist such as shakespeare even if it was incorrect would be an honor in itself because i it still showing an appreciation for one of history’s greatest figures. The more people kept utilizing this false quote, the more it became the norm of talking about shakespeare, so it is understandable for why many people commited this action. Furthermore, I don’t find the incorrect use of this quote to be something truly offensive to shakespeare's work considering when fully observed, its just a simple quote. Yes it is a quote from one of Shakespeare’s finest works, “Hamlet”, but the quote by itself doesn’t carry much meaning in the story overall, especially when it was about a character known offscreen. Overall the pastimes of how this quote from Hamlet was used have overall seem benign in how we appreciate the work done in these plays, which is why I think its ok to accept them.

Notice however that I have put emphasis on how they were used in the past, not the present/ future because like it or not, clarity matters in overall presentation. If you’re going to reference a historical part of literature such as Hamlet then it must be represented clearly, otherwise it seems as if there is no reason for it to be in the works. Yes it is a minor topic to think about, but the more an issue like this sticks out, the more distracting it will be for the overall project, causing a lack of focus for what it is about. Plus if you’re going to honor a memorable author like Shakespeare the very least you could do is make sure his work is remembered properly, giving off the timeless feeling that is given off from these plays. What do you guys think about the quote though, have you guys heard the proper, or improper version first?

ALAS, POOR SHAKESPEARE I KNEW HIM WELL, NOT REALLY

During Act 5 scene 5, we read possibly one of the most controversial lines in literature history, and possibly for all the wrong reasons: “Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him, Horatio: a fellow”. For those who don’t know, there has been a timeless misconception of how this quote goes, leading to plenty of characters in books, tv shows, comics, movies, and more phrasing it wrong. They would say it like “Alas, poor ____ I knew him well” in order to make the scene they’re playing in more dramatic, or to make it seem comical to reference shakespeare”s work. Nowadays with the improvements to technology, and history, making a mistake like this is hard to not get notice, especially when there is much emphasis on the statement. While this may seem minor, this mistake has lead to constant debates on whether it is right to say this quote incorrectly, or not, which I will be discussing today.

Some people argue that the reason for past uses of the quote have tainted one of Shakespeare’s legacy on the world, others state that they were only mistakes and the emersion of this play is fixed currently. Now, in my personal opinion, I believe that saying this quote in an incorrect manner isn’t fine because people won’t get the reference, and the effort will be meaningless. However, all the times shakespeare’s “Hamlet” was referenced in the past are fine considering that at the time, people didn’t have as much of a way of confirming the reference. In this generation, the internet has provided plenty of ways to check certain facts when creating something meaningful for others. An article, or book could immediately be wrong with something, and given feedback while it was still in production. In the past though, referencing a creative artist such as shakespeare even if it was incorrect would be an honor in itself because i it still showing an appreciation for one of history’s greatest figures. The more people kept utilizing this false quote, the more it became the norm of talking about shakespeare, so it is understandable for why many people commited this action. Furthermore, I don’t find the incorrect use of this quote to be something truly offensive to shakespeare's work considering when fully observed, its just a simple quote. Yes it is a quote from one of Shakespeare’s finest works, “Hamlet”, but the quote by itself doesn’t carry much meaning in the story overall, especially when it was about a character known offscreen. Overall the pastimes of how this quote from Hamlet was used have overall seem benign in how we appreciate the work done in these plays, which is why I think its ok to accept them.

Notice however that I have put emphasis on how they were used in the past, not the present/ future because like it or not, clarity matters in overall presentation. If you’re going to reference a historical part of literature such as Hamlet then it must be represented clearly, otherwise it seems as if there is no reason for it to be in the works. Yes it is a minor topic to think about, but the more an issue like this sticks out, the more distracting it will be for the overall project, causing a lack of focus for what it is about. Plus if you’re going to honor a memorable author like Shakespeare the very least you could do is make sure his work is remembered properly, giving off the timeless feeling that is given off from these plays. What do you guys think about the quote though, have you guys heard the proper, or improper version first?


The Allegory and the Grave

The Gravedigger scene in Act V is a key part in Shakespeare’s play through the way it delivers comic relief on the stage, confronts allegorical elements of religion, and juxtaposes almost lighthearted comedy with grim deaths. 

The character of the main gravedigger is multi-faceted. He is a simple man, working a non-favorable job that has left him seemingly desensitized to the large, existential issues of life and death. Making light of other’s dire situations, just trying to do his job; one could even see him has a far-off symbol of the Grim Reaper. Despite his 17th century version of a blue-collar standing, the elder grave-digger displays a relatively developed knowledge in the classical studies and other highly-reserved arts. Although he might not be a great example of the wise senex archetype, we are shown signs of his wisdom through his butchered references of law, biblical symbolism, and more importantly, through his wit. It his through the grave-diggers dry, deadpan deliveries and witty banter with Hamlet, that Shakespeare is able to fully bring the dark humor into his work. His mastery shines through, the balance of drama and comedy appealing to the audience and setting up the stage for the final climax of our story. The elements of irony used in the scene bring an almost Onion-like satire into the theatre (we can almost hear the headline, Gravedigger whistles lighthearted tune while completing grave for eternally-damned virgin and recent suicide victim). Frequently in the midst of, or preluding to some type of unfortunate situation, it’s the kind of humor that makes you chuckle and cringe at the same time. While to some this may distract from the serious and morbid tones of the play, Shakespeare’s juxtaposition of humor and death turns out to be an extremely effective tool to deliver the major themes of Hamlet, and even gives way to one of its most memorable scenes. The penultimate scene of our play, we are left with many questions on the deeper meaning of comedy, and inescapable events of both life and death: What is the role of the grave-digger? Is his purpose more literal or allegorical? What is the importance of comedy dire, or negative situations? Can it serve a purpose in the bereavement process?

PLOT TWIST? 

Throughout the entirety of this play I have been waiting anxiously for Hamlet to kill Claudius and avenge his father’s murder. That has been the plan since act 1, right? Well now as we are starting to dive into act 5 I am starting to think Shakespeare may have different plans for the end of his story. Shakespeare isn’t one for conditional “happy endings”. We all saw proof of that freshman year when we read Romeo and Juliet and instead of having their happily ever after they both ended up dead. Now, in Hamlet, I can’t find any resolution to this play that will end anywhere near “happy”. 

We know not only is Hamlet plotting Claudius’ death, but now Claudius is plotting Hamlet’s death! My thoughts are that after watching Hamlet’s play, the king knew that Hamlet was on to him, and now he needs to get him out of the equation before the rest of the kingdom finds out the truth. How long will Hamlet be able to avoid death when it is coming from his step-father, life long friends, and the son of the man he just killed? Will this play end in Hamlet’s death as opposed to the kings? Another prediction is maybe everyone dies. Shakespeare has done it before and I would not put it past him to do it again. There could be the huge bloody duel we’ve all been waiting for, however I think this is unlikely based off of the lack of action we have seen thus far.

If Hamlet does live at the end of our play, I am struggling to figure out what his place in society will be when it is all over. All of Denmark thinks he is crazy. I feel like he will have a hard time becoming king or establishing any type of normal life. How will his mother treat him? How will he cope with not just one, but possibly two or more murders on his hands? He doesn’t seem to have a very promising life waiting for him. Will Hamlet even go through with the murder of Claudius? Since his plan was soiled by him getting sent to London, we haven’t heard of a new plan from him. All we know is that he is back and now the knife is pointed toward him. This is a lot to think about. Before we finish tomorrow, I am eager to hear y’all’s thoughts and predictions!

MENTAL ILLNESS - HAMLET DOESN'T HAVE A PERSONALITY DISORDER

Firstly, I want to make a disclaimer: I am no psychiatrist, but I am well educated in the field of mental illness. If you want some reliable information, check out NAMI.org - NAMI is the National Alliance on Mental Illness. 

With all of the diagnosing going around in this thread, I thought I might as well introduce my opinion into the mix as well. In this post, I’d like to address comments regarding Hamlet suffering from personality disorders, such as Paranoid Personality Disorder. I read descriptions of the disorder posted by a couple of you guys, and I also did some research of my own. Something that I think is really important for us all to keep in mind is that there are a vast number of illnesses, disorders and conditions that have paranoia as a symptom. I also know a fair amount about mental illness, as I have a history of mental illness in my family. According to some of my research, “The cause of paranoid personality disorder is unknown. However, researchers believe that biological factors combined with environmental factors can lead to paranoid personality disorder.” While there are environmental factors that can contribute to episodes of such disorders, a personality disorder is a serious mental condition. People don’t just “get” a personality disorder - your brain chemistry has a lot to do with it. Now, the environmental factors that can lead to personality disorders are things such as traumatic childhoods, dysfunctional home life in early childhood and adolescence, etc. One traumatic experience in adulthood doesn’t cause a serious personality disorder, and that is a fact. 

Back in Shakespearean times, mental illness was not even a topic. People have suffered from mental illness since the beginning of humanity (or at least since our brains have been as developed as they are now), but mental health itself is a new topic. Only recently have people been able to be diagnosed, only recently have we known so much about our own brains. While there was definitely zero implication in Shakespeare’s writing (because frankly, no one knew about any of this), it is fun and harmless to speculate.

POLONIUS HELPED CLAUDIUS?

As we have read and inferred, King Claudius killed King Hamlet; however, something isn’t adding up to me. I believe that Claudius did kill Hamlet, although, there seems to be something weird involving the “disappearance” of Ophelia and the relations of Polonius and others. He seems to scheme quite often with the new king, such as making sure Ophelia breaks it off with Hamlet and spying on the Queen’s conversation with Hamlet. Is it possible that they have plotted together in the past? Is it also possible Polonius helped Claudius kill King Hamlet?
Every since the beginning of the play William Shakespeare has displayed the close relationship that Polonius and King Claudius have shared. We could also infer that as an advisor AND friend to the king, it is in his job description to help out with any of the King’s needs. Could Claudius have gone to Polonius to help him pull off the murder? This could be an explanation as to why Polonius has been behind the King’s decision to send Hamlet off to England, for his sake as well as the kings. 
UPDATE: we have just learned that Ophelia possibly committed suicide. Do you think any parts of her death are odd or could she have truly not been able to live with the death of her father? I think others have brought up my last point as well, but does anyone else have any other theories regarding Polonius and Ophelia’s death? Let me know what you guys think about Polonius’ possible plots with the King and if you think it relates to Ophelia’s death, the ghost or the king’s death.

IS OPHELIA THE NEXT HAMLET?

(Spoiler alert up to Act 4 Scene 5) As of now, we find ourselves deep into Act 4, where Ophelia is absolutely distraught over the loss of her father. She meets her brother Laertes and is depicted in a very poor state. She shares a dialogue with the King, Queen, and Laertes. In this scene, Ophelia says some weird things and even sings repeatedly. As Mr. Bergen said, she can be shown in the film handing out invisible flowers. In her dialogue with the Queen, she responds by singing poorly 6 times. Seems a little odd right? I would never break out in song in a conversation let alone after a person died. At the beginning of Act 4 Scene 5, the Gentleman describes Ophelia’s mood as “importunate… needs to be pitied”. She leaves the scene by saying “goodnight, ladies, good night. Sweet ladies, good night…” yet there is only one lady: the Queen. Shakespeare likes to draw similar things to his plays, such as Romeo and Juliet with Hamlet and Ophelia, the names of the characters, and more. This weird, PTSD-like way of acting is very similar to the precursor of Hamlet’s vengeance. The way the Queen, King, and Laertes pity her grieving and craziness is very similar to the way Hamlet acted insane on purpose for people to disregard him.That brings the question, is Ophelia gonna do anything about the loss of her father just like Hamlet did? Hamlet was very sad and was even proclaimed mad. Later, he was visited by the ghost of his father claiming his death was his uncle’s fault. I do believe Ophelia’s quick disappearance with no true resolution could be a foreshadowing for the future. Do you think ghost Polonius will visit Ophelia? As of now, she doesn’t know who murdered her father (I think). Is she up to something? What do you guys think?

